The Beautiful Garland of Lotuses
A Prayer to the Lineage of the Rediscovered Treasure, Five-Deity Subjugative Hayagrīva
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

chökü tönpa kunzang ö min gyur
Dharmakāya teacher, Samantabhadra, Unchanging Light,
longku tuk chen pema gargyi wang
Sambhogakāya, Great Compassionate One, Lotus Master of the Dance,
tulku rigdzin pema jungné la
And nirmāṇakāya vidyādhara, Padmasambhava,
solwa deb so nedön tar jé shok
To you I pray: eliminate all disease and harmful influences!

mijé zung tob kharchen za tsogyal
Kharchen Za Yeshe Tsogyal, who gained unfailing mnemonic powers,
yeshe chenden bairo tsana dang
Vairotsana, who possesses the eyes of primordial wisdom,
trulpé terchen chokden gönpo la
And the great emanated tertön Chokden Gönpo,1
solwa deb so nedön tar jé shok
To you I pray: eliminate all disease and harmful influences!

trisong namrol pema do ngak ling
Emanation of Tri Songdetsen, Pema Do-ngak Lingpa,2
nampar nangdzé lodrö tayé dang
Vairocana in person, Lodrö Thayé,3
drubpé rigdzin nangdzé dorjé la
And the accomplished vidyādhara, Nangdzé Dorje,4
solwa deb so nedön tar jé shok
To you I pray: eliminate all disease and harmful influences!

mindrol dön tön tsawé lama jé
Noble root guru, who communicates the points of maturation and liberation,
yidam tamdrin nyenpo lha nga dang
The yidam, the five subjugative deities of Hayagrīva,
khandro chökyong norlha terdak la
And ḍākinīs, dharmapālas, wealth deities and treasure-keepers,
solwa deb so nedön tar jé shok
To you I pray: eliminate all disease and harmful influences!

nyendrub kyérim depé naljor gyi
Through the yoga of approach and accomplishment and recitation of the generation phase,
ngön lé tral kyen nedön barché zhi
May we pacify past karma, immediate circumstances, illness, harmful influences and obstacles,
dzokrim duk nga yeshe lamkhyer gyi
And through the perfection stage of transforming the five poisons into wisdom,
rigpé tsal dzok palchen drubpar shok
May we perfect the strength of awareness and accomplish the great Awesome One!

Thus, Chökyi Lodrö composed this prayer in response to a request accompanied by the gift of
a divine silk scarf from the attendant Drungyik Tsering Tashi. Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Sources:
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "Yang gter rta mgrin gnyen po lha lnga'i brgyud 'debs" in gsung
'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros (dbu med/). 8 vols. Gangtok: Dzongsar Khyentse Labrang,
1981–1985 (BDRC W21813). Vol. 4: 105–106
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "Yang gter rta mgrin gnyen po lha lnga'i brgyud 'debs/" in 'Jam
dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986.
Vol. 3: 379
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "Yang gter rta mgrin gnyen po lha lnga'i brgyud 'debs pad+ma’i
phreng mdzes/" In blo gros mtha' yas (ed.). rin chen gter mdzod chen mo/. New Delhi: Shechen
Publications, 2007–2008. Vol. 46: 419

Version: 1.0-20220404
↑ Rigdzin Chokden Gönpo (1497–1557) was the original discoverer of this treasure. (Dates are
from BDRC. Matthew Akester, The Life of Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, Khyentse Foundation, p.
324 n. 432, gives the year of his death as 1531.)↑ Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo (1820–1892).↑ Jamgön
Kongtrul Lodrö Thayé (1813–1899).↑ Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö’s own father, Gyurme
Tsewang Gyatso, whose secret name was Chimé Nangdzé Dorje.